Add notes about data structures to documentation (#329)
primap-community/primap2: docs/source/data_structures.md

### Data structures for primap2

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here, we document an unfinished proposal for more advanced data structures for sparse data within primap2.
```

* An easy way to think about this:
  In some of our datasets during pre-processing, we use the category "rice cultivation" for every country, even though rice grows only in a few countries. This creates many empty arrays.
* We face this issue mainly in the pre-processing steps. Later, we reduce the number of categories in the final dataset, which makes the dataset overall less sparse.
* Merging sparse datasets into one dataset is very memory-intensive. We cannot execute this task on our laptops.
* Other tasks, like selecting or downscaling, are also slower with very sparse datasets.

#### Our specific requirements

To handle very sparse arrays effectively, primap2 data handling functions should meet the following key requirements:

* **Merge datasets**
  Example: A script like `src/unfccc_ghg_data/unfccc_crf_reader/crf_raw_for_year.py` compiles all CRF (or CRT) datasets for a submission year into one dataset. Since countries report at different levels of detail, categories unique to one dataset result in NaNs in others, making datasets sparse and memory-intensive. We aim to significantly reduce memory usage.

* **Select**

>   Filtering datasets by dimensions such as country, sector, or gas is essential. The `primap2` `.loc` function already supports this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Filtering datasets by dimensions such as country, sector, or gas is essential. The {py:meth}`xarray.Dataset.pr.set` function already supports this, but not for DataTrees.
```
We can add a proper link using the `{py:meth}` syntax.

  * **Pandas**: Useful for pre-processing, where we already use it, but rewriting everything in pandas would be a significant effort. Mathematical operations are slow, and datasets remain sparse after converting back to xarray. Basiv example of conversion in pandas [here](https://github.com/primap-community/primap2/pull/321/files).

#### DataTree

* Data trees are a hierarchical structure of datasets.
* They offer a data structure for managing multiple datasets without the need to merge them (which is slow for sparse arrays).
* DataTree replaces looping through datasets to perform operations by providing a hierarchical tree of datasets.
* Regarding our sparsity issue: combining several datasets in one DataTree helps to some extent but does not eliminate the problem. For example, a unique category in dataset A would not create all NaNs for that dimension in dataset B but would still create many NaNs in dataset A.
* It is relatively easy to convert multiple datasets into an xarray DataTree.
* Watch this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iwcuy6Smbjs) for an introduction to datatree

> <table>
>   <tr>
>     <th>Pro</th>
>     <th>Con</th>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td>
>       <ul>
>         <li>Supports conversion from/to NetCDF and Zarr.</li>
>         <li>Allows us to stay within the xarray ecosystem (as opposed to SQL or pandas).</li>
>         <li>All pre-processing steps can be covered in DataTree.</li>
>       </ul>
>     </td>
>     <td>
>       <ul>
>         <li>Limited examples and documentation available (as of April 2025).</li>
>         <li>Requires making our primap2 functions compatible with DataTree.</li>
>         <li>Processing DataTrees may involve looping through sub-datasets. Is it faster than merging once?</li>
>         <li>The hierarchical concept does not align well with our use case. All country datasets would be "siblings," but this is not necessarily a problem.</li>
>       </ul>
>     </td>
>   </tr>
> </table>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Pro | Con |
|---|---|
| Supports conversion from/to NetCDF and Zarr. | Limited examples and documentation available (as of April 2025). |
| Allows us to stay within the xarray ecosystem (as opposed to SQL or pandas). | Requires making our primap2 functions compatible with DataTree. |
| All pre-processing steps can be covered in DataTree.  | Processing DataTrees may involve looping through sub-datasets. Is it faster than merging once? |
| | The hierarchical concept does not align well with out use case. All country datasets would "siblings," but this is not necessarily a problem. |
```

It's not exactly the same result, but if possible avoid html and use markdown instead.
